blog: announcing axum 0.6.0 (#680)
tokio-rs/website: content/blog/2022-11-24-announcing-axum-0-6-0.md

---
date: "2022-11-24"
title: "Announcing axum 0.6.0"
description: "November 24, 2022"
---

TODO(david): Update the dates, both in header and file name

Back in August we announced `axum` [0.6.0-rc.1][rc1] and today I'm happy to
report that the prelease period is over and `axum` 0.6.0 is out!

`axum` is an ergonomic and modular web framework built with `tokio`, `tower`,
and `hyper`.

This also includes new major versions for [`axum-core`], [`axum-extra`], and
[`axum-macros`].

If you've already read the [rc.1][rc1] announcement then some of these things
will be familiar. However many details of the APIs have been fine tuned to be
easier to use and flexible.

> ## Type safe `State` extractor

Reviewer: This section doesn't mention sub-states / `FromRef`, shouldn't it?

    .route("/", post(handler).get(other_handler));

async fn handler(
    // This would consume the request body
    json_body: Json<serde_json::Value>,
    // This would also attempt to consume the body but fail
    // since it is gone
    request: Request<Body>,
) {}

async fn other_handler(
    request: Request<Body>,
    // This would also fail at runtime, even if the `AppState` extension
    // was set since `Request<Body>` consumes all extensions
    state: Extension<AppState>,
) {}
```

The solution was to manually ensure that you only use one extractor that
consumes the request and that it was the last extractor. `axum` 0.6 now enforces
this at compile time:

```rust
use axum::{
    Router,
    Json,
    routing::post,
    body::Body,
    http::Request,
};

let app = Router::new()
    .route("/", post(handler).get(other_handler));

async fn handler(
    // We cannot extract both `Request` and `Json`, have to pick one
    json_body: Json<serde_json::Value>,
) {}

async fn other_handler(
    state: Extension<AppState>,
    // `Request` must be extracted last
    request: Request<Body>,
) {}
```

This was done by reworking the [`FromRequest`] trait and adding a new

> [`FromRequestParts`] trait.

Reviewer: I think a short note that people who previously implemented `FromRequest` in a way that doesn't touch the body should move to `FromRequestParts` would be helpful.

## Run extractors from `middleware::from_fn`

[`middleware::from_fn`] makes it easy to write middleware using familiar
async/await syntax. In 0.6 such middleware can also run extractors:

```rust
use axum::{
    Router,
    middleware::{self, Next},
    response::{Response, IntoResponse},
    http::Request,
    routing::get,
};
use axum_extra::extract::cookie::{CookieJar, Cookie};

async fn my_middleware<B>(
    // Run the `CookieJar` extractor as part of this middleware
    cookie_jar: CookieJar,
    request: Request<B>,
    next: Next<B>,
) -> Response {
    let response = next.run(request).await;

    // Add a cookie to the jar
    let updated_cookie_jar = cookie_jar.add(Cookie::new("foo", "bar"));

    // Add the new cookies to the response
    (updated_cookie_jar, response).into_response()
}

let app = Router::new()
    .route("/", get(|| async { "Hello, World!" }))
    .layer(middleware::from_fn(my_middleware));
```

There are also new [`map_request`] and [`map_response`] middleware functions that

> work similarly to `middleware::from_fn`. As well as [`from_with_with_state`],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work similarly to `middleware::from_fn`, as well as [`from_fn_with_state`],
```

[`map_request_with_state`,] and [`map_response_with_state`] versions that support
extracting `State`.

## Fallback inheritance for nested routers

> In `axum` 0.5 nested routers weren't allowed to have fallbacks and would cause a panic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `axum` 0.5, nested routers weren't allowed to have fallbacks and would cause a panic:
```

```rust
let api_router = Router::new()
    .route("/users", get(|| { ... }))
    .fallback(api_fallback);

let app = Router::new()
    // this would panic since `api_router` has a fallback
    .nest("/api", api_router);
```

However in 0.6 that now just works and requests that start with `/api` but
aren't matched by `api_router` will go to `api_fallback`.

> Additionally nested routers will now inherit fallbacks from the outer router if
> they don't have their own fallback:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The outer router's fallback will still apply if a nested router doesn't have
its own fallback:
```

    // `api_fallback` will inherit this fallback
    .fallback(app_fallback);
```

So generally you just put fallbacks where you need them and axum will do the
right thing!

## WebAssembly support

`axum` now supports being compiled to WebAssembly by disabling the `tokio`
feature:

```toml
axum = { version = "0.6", default-features = false }
```

`default-features = false` will disable the `tokio` feature which is among the
default features.

This will disable the parts of `tokio`, `hyper`, and `axum` that don't
support WebAssembly.

## Trailing slash redirects removed

Previously if you had a route for `/foo` but got a request to `/foo/`, `axum`
would send a redirect response to `/foo`. However many found this behavior
surprising and it had edge-case bugs when combined with services that did their
own redirection, or used middleware, so in 0.6 we decided to remove this
feature.

The recommended solution is to explicitly add the routes you want:

```rust
use axum::{
    Router,
    routing::get,
};

let app = Router::new()
    // Send `/foo` and `/foo/` to the same handler
    .route("/foo", get(foo))
    .route("/foo/", get(foo));

async fn foo() {}
```

> If you want to opt into the old behavior you can use [`RouterExt::route_with_tsr`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to opt into the old behavior, you can use [`RouterExt::route_with_tsr`] from `axum-extra`.
```
